.TH XALPARSE 8 "24 April 1987"				\" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
xalparse \- parse an extended aliases file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xalparse
.I xaliases aliases generics
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I xalparse
program parses an extended aliases file and produceces an ordinary
aliases file together with a file with generic address translations.
.PP
The format of the xaliases file is a superset of
.IR aliases (5):
.RS
alias, alias, \|.\|.\|.\|: prefix address, prefix address, \|.\|.\|.\|
.RE
It differes by allowing more than one LHS alias and by adding an
optional
.I prefix
in front of each RHS address.  The
.I prefix
marks the address as either inbound or outbound according to the
following table:
.RS
.nf
.ta \w'(\fIno mark\fP)'u+5n
(\fIno mark\fP)	Inbound
<	Outbound
>	Inbound
<>	Both Inbound and Outbound
.fi
.RE
.PP
Inbound aliasing is the normal function implemented by
.IR aliases (5).
All inbound entries are therefore simply copied to the
.I aliases
output file.  Outbound addresses are written to the
.I generics
file in a format suitable for parsing by
.I dbm (1).
Each line will consist of the first LHS
.I alias
of the entry followed by the outbound addresses separated with spaces.
The
.I generics
file is then normally loaded into a
.IR dbm (3)
database that is read by
.IR sendmail (8)
and used to substitute header sender addresses with the aliased name.
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Lennart Lovstrand <lel@ida.liu.se>
CIS Dept, Univ of Linkoping, Sweden
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR dbm (1),
.IR aliases (5),
.IR sendmail (8)
.br
Electronic Mail Addressing in Theory and Practice with The IDA Sendmail
Enchancement Kit.
